Project Report

Project Title
Sales Insights Data Analyst Project

Presented by
Vichitravir Dwivedi
MS in Business Analytics
University of Texas at Dallas
 
Contents
Problem Statement	3
The aim of this project will be to:	3
Purpose	3
Stakeholders	3
Result	3
Success Criteria	3
Tools and Skills	3
ETL	4
Task 1: Data acquisition	4
Task 2: Data Cleaning	4
Task3: Building PowerBI Dashboard	6
Data Model	6
Data Transformation	6
Final Dashboard	8
References	9


 
Problem Statement
AtliQ Hardware Delhi based company which supplies computer hardware and peripherals to many of their clients namely Surge Stores, Nomad Stores, Excel Stores, Electrical Sara Stores all across India. Atliq Hardware has its head office in Delhi and other regional offices throughout India. Bhavin Patel is the Sales Director at Atliq Hardware. Mr. Patel is tracking sales in this dynamically growing market, and he is finding it difficult to get the exact count. The Sales figures according to Bhavin is not accurately given by regional Sales Manager. According to him the regional sales managers are extrapolating the sales. 
Extremely, frustrated with the current scenario Mr. Patel is helpless as the actual sales are declining and he is not able to gain the real insights into the data. Bhavin ha Excel sheets that stores sales data but due to its humungous amount Bhavin is getting frustrated and not able to reach to a solution. Bhavin is interested in simple understandable dashboard which is easy to understand but at the same time shows accurate figures.
The aim of this project will be to:
Purpose
To unlock sales insights that re not visible before for sales team for decision support and automate them to reduce manual time spent in data gathering. 
Stakeholders
Sales Director
Marketing Team
Customer Service Team
Data and Analytics Team
IT
Result
An automated dashboard providing quick and latest sales insights to support data driven decision making
Success Criteria
Dashboard uncovering sales order insights with lates data available 
Sales team able to take better decisions and prove 10% cost savings of total spend
Sales analysts stop data gathering manually in order to save 20% of their business time and reinvest it value added activity

Tools and Skills:
SQL, Power BI, Data Warehousing, Business Analytics, ETL
ETL
Task 1: Data acquisition
Task 2: Data Cleaning
SQL Query
 
Output
 

SQL Query
 
Output
 
Note: We can see a couple of Null Values here, which we will take care during the data cleaning process.
SQL Query
 
Output
 
Note: The sales amount for the 2nd row is a negative value. We know amount has to be either 0 or positive value, this means that the negative values are garbage values which we need to take care of.

Task3: Building PowerBI Dashboard
Data Model
Our data model represents a STAR Schema
 

Data Transformation
Removing Null values from the Column [zone] in our sales_markets Table
 
 

Removing non positive sales_amount values from sales_transactions tables
 
Adding conditional column to convert USD values to INR
 

Final Dashboard
 
 
References

•	https://github.com/codebasics/DataAnalysisProjects/tree/master/1_SalesInsights
•	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=68m2UCtedj0&list=PLeo1K3hjS3uva8pk1FI3iK9kCOKQdz1I9&index=9
